INTRODUCTION

paraphrases Greek philosophy, weaving in illustra-
tions from Roman history and suggestions of Roman
mould in a form intended to make it, if not popular,
at least comprehensible, to the Roman mind. How
well he succeeded is evidenced by the comparative
receptivity of Roman soil prepared by Stoic doctrine
for the teachings of Christianity. Indeed, Anthony
Trollope labels our author the “Pagan Christian.”
“You would fancy sometimes‚” says Petrarch‚ “it
is not a Pagan philosopher but a Christian apostle
who is speaking.'' No less an authority than
Frederick the Great has called our book “the best
work on morals that has been or can be written.”
Cicero himself looked upon it as his masterpiece.

It has its strength and its weakness--its sane
common sense and noble patriotism, its sels-conceit
and partisan politics3 it has the master's brilliant
style, but it is full of repetitions and rhetorical
flourishes‚ and it fails often in logical order and
power3 it rings true in its moral tone, but it shows
in what haste and distraction it was composed; for
it was not written as a contribution to close scientific
thinking3 it was written as a means of occupation
and diversion.

